Hello there.
This is the Manila Room.
Let's now look at primitive variable types.
All, the Jawa is an object oriented programming language for performance reasons.
Java defines eight primitive data types for variables.
And here they are.
The primitive data types are emphasized in right here and they include Boolean byte, short and long,
float, double and car except for boolean.
The rest of the data types are numeric data types.
Even car, which can be used to represent an alphabet is a numeric type as it is internally represented
as an unsigned integer.
So car is also a numeric data type in Java and you should always keep that in mind.
Now you might also wonder why Java designers defined four different data types just to represent integers.
Why not use just one of them?
Recall that a variable is like a container and the container will have certain size.
If you have only a single large container for integers, then it resource constraint devices.
It could result in a lot of wastage of memory.
That is to represent even a small number.
We would be using the same large container.
That is more number of bits are used.
Similarly, if you have only a single small container for integers, then it may be difficult to represent
large numbers.
That is, numbers that are too big to fit into the container.
So for this reason, Java defined different containers, each with a different size.
That is the data types byte, short int and long have different sizes as we will soon see.
But they all represent integers.
That is, the programmer can choose the best data type as per his or her needs.
So these are the eight different primitive data types.
Next, we will explore them in detail.
Thank you.